---
title: "Heterogeneous Knowledge based Person-Job Fit"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-www
excerpt: 'Heterogeneous Knowledge based Person-Job Fit'
date: 2023-01-01
venue: 'International World Wide Web Conference'
citation_short: 'Hao Chen, Lun Du, <b>Yuxuan Lu</b>, Qiang Fu, Xu Chen, Shi Han, Yanbin Kang, Guangming Lu and Zi Li, Heterogeneous knowledge enhanced Person-Job Fit (WWW 2023)'
in_review: true
---
Person-Job Fit (PJF), as a core function of online recruitment platforms, aims to automatically link the right talent to the right job positions. Existing works mainly focus on leveraging historical job application information and textual information in member profiles and job descriptions while ignoring the rich and heterogeneous knowledge within this domain (e.g., skills, industries, education, and social relationships). This heterogeneous knowledge plays an essential role in the PJF problem and provides additional information. In this paper, we propose a new Heterogeneous Knowledge-based Person-Job Fit model based on Heterogeneous Graph Neural Networks. To fuse heterogeneous knowledge, we define a Workplace Heterogeneous Information Network (WHIN) with five types of entities and nine types of relationships. Based on WHIN, we introduce a heterogenous graph based pre-training technique to tackle the supervision sparsity challenge in PJF. To further solve the lack of member information, we propose a social-aware deep model that leverages workplace social information to supplement the lacked knowledge of members. Experimental results on three real-world recruiting datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.


<!-- [Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.12866.pdf) -->
